---
date: 2022-03-04
---


## Motivation
The library has been out for a few months, and has seen a bit of adoption, no direct feedback, and a few stars.

I think moving to a v1 would help promote adoption by improving sense of stability.

## Limiting API surface

I'm pretty confident in the core Builder pipeline experience.
I'm less confident in some of the static functions used behind the pipeline, and I don't want to promise those won't change.

I'm hesitant to make the methods private, because that prevents others from using them to build their own experiences. However, I don't want to induce drag on future changes.

I think the posture I might take is 
- don't document those functions in the main usecases
- communicate that these functions are mainly public for those who want to build extensions, and they are more likely to change than the builder.

TODO: consider if I leave CommandHandler endpoints public or expose AnonymousHandler
- I'm thinking about how this effects my F# wrapper
- ALT: I definitely have a pipeline at the point I bind the handler, so I can wrap the extension method instead without messing with my declarative structure

TODO:DONE: consider removing TextCase in favor of making the comparers easier to access

## Pipeline inspection and types

I should spend some time considering the types different builder methods add to the pipeline. This could impact builder methods that want to inspect and possibly modify (e.g. reorder) binders.

It looks like `PropertyMap` functions could adopt this relatively easily, but `ModelFactory` cannot

TODO: Consider if I want to convert the PropertyMaps to classes
- oh yeah, this suffers from needing extra type parameters

## Documentation

TODO:DONE: I need to document extension of model initialization
- decided not to do it. It's low-likelihood and easily discoverable because the pipeline accepts the interface that'd need to be implemented

TODO: DONE: document my stance on Dependency Inversion

TODO: update docs once I split PropertyMap into classes


## Testing



## TODO
- [ ] Consider renaming the library to something like System.CommandLine.BinderPipeline 
- [ ] consider moving model factories into a similar namespace
  - [ ] I think the static class of functions needs to stay in the root namespace for discoverability